# Aneuploid_CRISPR_Screens
Data repository for BioRxiv article: Schukken, K.M., et al. "Paired CRISPR screens identify mitochondrial metabolism and UBE2H as aneuploid-specific dependencies in human cancer cell lines" (2026) 


*****

"Code" Folder: This folder contains the R code files used to analyse data and produce graphs in this article. 

"Data" Folder: This folder contains count files and MAGeCK CRISPR screen analysis files for the paired CRISPR screens performed for this article. This folder also contains the Mass Spec proteomics files produced for this paper. 

"Dependency" Folder: This folder contains datasets analysed and used in this article to produce figures and analysis'. Data from DepMap Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia (CCLE), The Human Protein Atlas (HPA), The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), and data files from previous publications including Magesh et al.(2025), Zerbib et al. (2024), Bokenkamp et al.(2025), Durrbaum et al. (2014), Dephoure et al. (2014), and Stingele et al. (2012). Data in this folder was not generated for this article, and most files were not generated by authors of this article. These are dependency files from other works. Files in this folder may be under additional LICENSE agreements. By downloading and using these files, you are agreeing to those licenses as well. They are provided here for reproduciblity and academic use. 

"GeneSets" Folder: This folder contains the gene sets used to generate gene groups used in my analysis. 

"SupData" Folder: This folder contains the supplementary data files for this article, not including the karyotype file Supplementary Data 2, as that is too large for Github. 

*****

TO RUN CODE: 
To run all the code and produce figure graphs, download the "Code" files, the "Data" files and the "Dependency" files. All code is written in R. 
ADDITIONALLY: please download "CRISPRGeneEffect.csv" CRISPR dropout data from DepMap data (DepMap, Broad (2024). 24Q4), "OmicsExpressionProteinCodingGenesTPMLogp1.csv" RNA expression data from DepMap (DepMap, Broad (2024). 24Q4), and "mmc2.xlsx" normalized proteomics data (Nusinow et al. 2020) (DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2019.12.023) (Downloaded august 2020). These files were too big to be uploaded to Github and can be downloaded from DepMap.org. 

Note: "OmicsExpressionProteinCodingGenesTPMLogp1.csv" and "mmc2.xlsx" are only needed for Supplementary Figure 7, DepMep RNA and Proteomics analysis. You can run most of the code without these files. CRISPRGeneEffect.csv is used in multiple figures. 


TO LOOK UP INFO IN ANALYZED DATA: 
I would recomend downloading the Supplementary Data files, as these contain analyzed CRISPR screen results, DepMap analysis and UBE2H proteomics data. 
